# General Purpose Technologies: A network perspective
## 1. Introduction 

Every era is characterised by the existence of a prevailing technology that dictates, in a sense, innovation, rather than investment allocation, corporate strategy (alliances, mergers, etc..) and  government policy-making. These key technologies are referred to as General Purpose Technology [1]. We will refer to this category of technologies as GPTs.

These technologies have a particular hierarchical structure, [1], characterised in the most trivial case by only two levels: at the highest level,  we have a basic technology (or set of technologies), whose task is to serve as the foundation for the development of various applications in the second level. The first level carries the essence of the technology, i.e., its general purposes.

GPTs have three fundamental characteristics: pervasiveness, complementary technologies, and dynamism [2]. Pervasiveness is referred to as the ability of a certain function to be essential for a large number of potential products and product systems. Complementary technologies are another of the foundations on which these types of technologies are based: they refer to the ability of a technology to encroach on different application areas. Finally, dynamism refers to how continuous efforts at innovation increase the efficiency with which the basic functionality described above is applied.

A very important concept analysed in [2] is that the fact that certain technology can be applied in different areas does not imply that it will be developed. Therefore, in [2], the concept of 'scope for improvement' is defined, where the adoption of technology must pass a cost-consideration test. Passing this test may imply the development of complementary technologies, which is one of the fundamental properties of GPTs.

So far, GPTs have been described for their characteristics, but our interest in them has not been justified. The question par excellence is: why is it important to study and recognise a GPT in the early stages? There are three main reasons for answering this question: (1) choosing appropriate policies, (2) identifying technological drivers for the growth of the economy, and finally, (3) anticipating how society will react to such technology. A very interesting result reported in [2] concerns the close correlation between the level of appropriability of one's inventions and the development of complementary technologies supporting the diffusion of a possible GPT. The level of appropriability refers to the ease with which innovators can benefit from their inventions. In GPTs, the improvement of the core technology comes through the development of all those complementary applications stimulated by the underlying core function. Therefore, it is considered to be more efficient to resolve the long-standing tension between creating monetary incentives for innovators and promoting the diffusion of innovation by opting for a relatively high level of this parameter, thereby fostering its dissemination.
The second reason for exploring this issue is that GPTs relate to the possibility of identifying drivers. GPTs suggest possible periods of expansion and slowdown in the economy. Slowdown phases, referred to as 'time-to-sow', are characterised by a strong development of knowledge and skills that are unprofitable in the short term but will have a major impact in the medium to long term. Finally, we wish to stress the importance of the coordination that must be created between the various agents, such as inventors, and users, but above all between their expectations regarding the usefulness of the technology. For more details, see Helpman and Trajtenberg (1994), who formalised a framework with the task of highlighting the dynamic links between the core and complementary technologies. These dynamics highlight an advantage of an existing GPT over an emerging GPT. Regardless when agents convince themselves that an increase in the number of complementary technologies for GPT, would represent the beginning of the climb towards global adoption. 

After this brief introduction, it is worthwhile to mention two technologies that are recognised globally as GPT: the case of steam engines and the electric motor, which are strongly based on 'continuous rotatory motion' as their core, and the even more recent case of electrical circuits in general, whose core technology that has conferred that very strong pervasiveness is 'binary logic'.

Despite the recognised importance of General Purpose Technologies and the many studies aimed at recognising them, the formalisation of a framework capable of identifying them in the early stages of their development has not yet been achieved. Succeeding in this task would mean having a great competitive advantage over competitors and the possibility of being able to anticipate the strategic positioning, taking into account, the social impacts that these technologies entail. These are the reasons that lead us to study and research the properties of GPTs that, in our opinion, can contribute to solving this problem. Applying the graph theory to this problem is not a completely original idea. Other work has been carried out in these terms. In [4], blockchain technology was analysed by leveraging patents, to show those traits that underlie GPTs.

Our project leverages the same dataset as the research in [4], and focuses on analysing different dynamics related to the flow of knowledge and information that can be reconstructed using Blockchain-related patents. The analysis, unlike the work already present in the literature, will focus more on the behaviour of individual nodes and the role of the links that connect these nodes, contributing in terms of local characteristics within the network rather than global characteristics that are well present in the literature. Under the assumption that such a technology is indeed a GPT, properties will be sought to be tested later on established technologies such as GPTs.

The question mainly sought to be answered is: is there a way to formalise in terms of knowledge flow the three properties characterising GPTs? And, if so, does blockchain technology respect them?




## References 

[1] General Purpose Technologies: "Engines of Growth?' \
[2] Assessing the nature of nanotechnology: can we uncover an emerging general purpose technology? \
[3] Uncovering GPTs with Patent Data \
[4] General Purpose Technology: The Blockchain Domain 
